    [MUSIC].      When we've developed a good understanding of the needs of our user,      it's time to move on to the second phase of the design life cycle,      design alternatives.      This is when we start to brainstorm how to accomplish the task we've been      investigating.      The problem here is that design is very hard, it's hard for a number of reasons.      The number of choices we have to make, and      things we have to control is more expansive than ever before.      Are we designing for desktops, laptops, tablets, smart phones,      smart watches, augmented reality, virtual reality, D, D,      gesture input, pen input, keyboard input, mouse input, voice input?      In this lesson, we're going to talk about how to generate ideas for designs.      And then we'll chat about how to explore those ideas a bit further      to figure out what you want to actually pursue.  

    The biggest mistake that a designer can make is jumping straight to designing      an interface without understanding the users or understanding the task.      The second biggest mistake though is settling on a single design idea or      a single genre of design ideas too early.      This can take on multiple forms.      One form is staying too allegiant to existing designs or products.      Take the thermostat, for example, again.      If you settled on tweaking the existing design of a thermostat      you would never invent the Nest.      So if you're working on improving an existing interface,      try to actually distance yourself from the existing solutions,      at least initially during the brainstorming session.      But this is also a problem if you're designing interfaces for      new tasks as well.      Imagine for instance, that while you were observing people exercising, you      started sketching interface ideas like how to make the buttons big enough or      what buttons need to be featured prominently.      In doing so, you're getting tunnel vision and missing out on any design      alternatives that might involve voice or gesture control.      So the second biggest mistake you can make is focusing      too strongly on one alternative from the very beginning,      instead of exploring the entire range of possible design alternatives.      The reason why this is such a common mistake,      is that there's this natural tendency to think of it as a waste of      time to develop interfaces you're not going to end up using.      You think you can get it done faster just by picking one early on and      sticking to it.      But flushing out ideas for interfaces you don't end up using isn't a waste of      time, because by doing so you continue to learn more about the problem.      The experience of exploring those ideas that you leave behind will make you      a better designer for the ideas that you do choose to pursue.      In all likelihood your ultimate design will be some combination of      the design alternatives that you explored earlier.      So, take my security system for an example.      There are two ways of interacting with it, the key pad and the key chain.      Two different designs that, in this particular instance,      integrated just fine.      Different alternatives won't always integrate side by side this easily,      but the design process as a whole is an iterative process of brainstorming,      combining, abandoning, revising and improving your ideas, and      that requires you start with several ideas in the first place.  

    When we talk about the problem we're solving here we define the problem space      as disabling a security system as we enter a home.      We defined our problem as far as possible away from      the current interfaces for doing it.      The design space on the other hand is the area      in which we design our solutions to this problem.      The current design space for this problem is wall mounted devices and      portable devices like my key chain.      But as we design, the space of possible ideas might expand.      For example, as we go along we might be interested in voice interfaces or      interfaces with our mobile phones or wearable devices.      Our goal during the design alternative phase is to explore the possible design      space.      We don't want to narrow down too early by sticking devices on walls or      devices on keychains.      We want to brainstorm lots of possible approaches, and      grow a large space of possible designs.  

    When you first start brainstorming,      your goal is to generate a lot of ideas.      These ideas can be very short,      very high level, and very general.      Your goal is just to generate an expanse of them.      They don't even have to be ideas for interfaces,      just any idea for solving the problem.      If you look online, you'll find lots of great guides to how to brainstorm ideas.      One of the most interesting takeaways is that research generally indicates it's      better to start with individual brainstorming. That's not intuitive though.      We often hold meetings for brainstorming,      but it should start out individually.      That's because brainstorming is most effective      when it initially generates a lot of ideas.      But groups tend to coalesce around ideas pretty early.      So, start out individually.      Generate a lot of ideas.      Each idea needs only be a few words or a sentence.      Don't worry right now if they're good or bad. Write down everything.      Think about how you design with different types of      interactions like gestures and voice and touch.      Think about how you design for different interfaces like smartwatches,      or tablets, or augmented reality.      Think about how you designed for different audiences,      novices, and experts or kids and adults.      Get silly with it. Some of the best ideas start as silly ideas.      How would you design this for your dog or for your cat?      How would you design this for someone with three arms or three legs? Go nuts.      Your goal is to generate a lot of ideas.      These are going to get loaded into your mind,      and they'll crop up in interesting ways throughout the rest of the design process.      That's why it's important to generate a lot of ideas.      You never know when they'll come up.  

    So, I'm going to demonstrate this for you real quick.      I'm going to brainstorm ideas for our problem of      allowing exercisers to consume books and take notes.      So, my paper for brainstorming.      So, please enjoy this -minute video of me sitting here writing at a desk.      Here's my list of ideas.      As you might be able to tell it gets kind of crazy,      it's all over the place.      You can kind of trace through my entire reasoning process on here.      So, some of the ideas are somewhat straightforward.      I've got voice commands,      I've got gestures, I've got voice transcription.      I tried to separate it out into feedback methods and also the way      the user actually interacts because we could kind of combine those.      Some of these are actually pretty crazy.      I've got on skin interface.      So, I've seen some prototypes for things that would let you actually just press on      your skin to do different kinds of interactions.      I've also got augmented reality like Google Glass.      I've got a portable keyboard like twiddler.      So, notice that this is kind of a mess. That's a good thing.      Lists are fine but chances are a lot of your ideas are related to each other.      Notice also that I never crumpled up my piece of paper, I never throw it away.      I crossed one thing out. That's because I wrote the wrong word.      Really at this stage, you don't want to reject any ideas.      Your goal is just to kind of free-form brainstorm and get all your thoughts out there.  

    Here are five quick tips for effective individual brain storming.      Number one, write down the core problem.      Keep this visible.      You want to let your mind enter a divergent thinking mode but      you also want to remain grounded in the problem.      Writing down the problem and      keeping it available will help you remain focused while remaining creative.      Number two.      Constrain yourself.      Decide you want at least on idea in a number of different categories.      Personally, I try to make sure I have at least three ideas that use      nontraditional interaction methods, like touch and voice.      You can constrain yourself in strange ways too.      Force yourself to think of solutions that are too expensive or      not physically possible.      The act of thinking in these directions will help you out later.      Number three.      Aim for .      Don't stop until you have twenty ideas.      These ideas don't have to be very well-formed or complex, they can be      simply one sentence descriptions of designs you might pursue.      This forces you to think through the problem,      rather than getting tunnel vision on an early idea.      Number .      Take a break.      You don't need to come up with all of these at once and, in fact,      you'll probably find it's easier if you leave and come back.      I'm not just talking about a ten minute break either.      Stop brainstorming and decide to continue a couple days later but      be ready to write down new ideas that come to you.      Number .      Divide and conquer.      If you're dealing with a problem like helping kids lead healthier lifestyles,      divide it into smaller problems and brainstorm solutions to those.      If we're designing audio books for exercises, for      example, we might divide it into things like the ability to take and      review notes, or the ability to control playback hands-free.      Divide it like that and      brainstorm solutions to each individual little problem.  

    Group brain storming presents some significant issues.      Thompson in  laid out four behaviors in group brainstorming that can block      progress.      The first is social loafing.      People often don't tend to work as hard in groups as they would individually.      It's easy to feel like the responsibility for      unproductive brainstorming is shared and deflected.      In individual brainstorming, it's clearly on the individual.      The second blocker is conformity, people in groups tend to want to agree.      Studies have shown that      group brainstorming leads to convergent thinking.      The conversation the group has tends to force participants down the same line of      thinking, generating fewer and      less varied ideas than the individuals acting alone.      During brainstorming,      though, the goal is diversion thinking, lots of ideas, lots of creativity.      The third blocker is production blocking.      In group brainstorming, there are often individuals who dominate      the conversation and make it difficult for others to actually be heard.      Their ideas can thus command more weight, not because of the strength of      the ideas, but because of the volume of the description.      The fourth blocker is performance matching.      People tend to converge in terms of passion and performance,      which can lead to a loss of momentum over time.      That might be able to get people excited if they're around other excited people      initially, but      more often than not, it saps the energy of those who enter with enthusiasm.      In addition to these four challenges, I would add a fifth.      Group brainstorming may also be prone to power dynamics, or biases.      No matter how supportive and collaborative a boss might be,      there'll likely always exist a tacit pressure to build on her suggestions,      which dampens creative brainstorming.      There also exists considerable literature stating that other biases      based on gender, age, race, complain to these group sessions as well.      Now note that this doesn't mean group brainstorming should be avoided      altogether.      What it means is that we should enter into group brainstorming with strong      ideas of how to address these issues, ideally,      after a phase of individual brainstorming has already occurred.  

    To have an effective group brainstorming session, we need to have some rules to      govern the individual's behavior to address those common challenges.      In , Osbourne outline four such rules.      Number one, Expressiveness.      Any idea that comes to mind, share it out loud, no matter how strange.      Number two, nonevaluation.      No criticizing ideas, no evaluating the ideas themselves yet.      Number three, quantity.      Brainstorming as many as possible.      The more you have, the greater your idea of finding a novel idea.      Number four, building.      While you shouldn't criticize other's ideas,      you should absolutely try to build on them.      Then, in , Oxley, Dzindolet and Paulus presented four additional rules.      Number one, stay focused.      Keep the goal in mind at all times.      Number two, no explaining ideas.      Say the idea and move on.      No justifying ideas.      Number three, when you hit a roadblock, revisit the problem.      Say it again out loud.      Number four, encourage others.      If someone isn't speaking up, encourage them to do so.      Note that all eight of these rules prescribe what individuals should do,      but they're only effective if every individual does them.      So it's good to cover these rules, post them publicly, and      call one another on breaking from them.  

    The rules given by Osborn, Oxley,      Dzindolet and Paulus are about helping      individuals understand how they should act in group brainstorming.      Here are a few additional tips though that apply less to      the individual participants and more to the design of the activity as a whole.      Number one, go through every individual idea.      Have participants perform individual brainstorming ahead of      time and bring ideas to the group brainstorming session,      and explicitly make sure to go through each one.      That will help avoid converging around an idea too early and make sure everyone is heard.      Number two, find the optimal size.      Social loafing occurs when there's a lack of individual responsibility.      When you have so many people that not everyone will get to talk anyway,      it's easy for disengagement to occur.      I would say group brainstorming session should generally      not involve more than five people.      If more people need to give perspectives than that,      then you can have intermediate groups that then send ideas along to a later group.      Number three, set clear rules for communication.      Get a -second timer and when someone starts talking, start it.      Once the timer is up,      someone else gets to speak.      The goal is to ensure that no one can block others ideas      by talking too much whether intentionally or accidentally.      Number four, set clear expectations.      Enthusiasm starts to wane when people are      unsure how long a session will go or what will mark its end.      You might set the session to go a certain amount of time or      dictate that a certain number of ideas must get generated.      No matter how you do it,      make sure that people participating can      assess where in the brainstorming session they are.      Number five, end with ideas, not decisions.      It's tempting to want to leave a brainstorming session with      a single idea on which to move forward, but that's not the goal.      Your brainstorming session should end with several ideas,      then let them percolate in everyone's mind      before coming back and choosing the ideas to pursue later.  

    The brainstorming process should lead you to a list of      bunch of high level general design alternatives.      These are likely just a few words or a sentence each but      they described some very general idea of how you might design the interface,      to accomplish this task.      Your next step is to try to flush these ideas out into three or      four ideas that are worth taking forward to the prototyping stage.      Some of the ideas you might be able to dismiss pretty quickly,      that's all right.      You can't generate good ideas without generating a lot of ideas.      Even though you won't end up using all of them.      In other places, you might explore an idea a little before dismissing it or      you might combine two ideas into a new idea.      In the rest of this lesson,      we'll give you some thought experiments you can use to evaluate these ideas and      decide what to keep, what to combine and what to dismiss.  

